Assignment

1. Who developed the python programming language?
Ans: Guido Van Rossum developed python programming language.

2. Which type of programming does python support?
Ans: python supports object oriented programming and structured programming.

3. Is python case sensitive when dealing with identifiers?
Ans: Yes python is case sensitive when dealing with identifiers.

4. What is the correct extension of the python file?
Ans:  .py is the correct extension of the python file.

5. Is python code compiled or interpreted?
Ans: Yes python code compiled or interpreted.

6. Name a few blocks of code used to define in the python language?
Ans:  n = int(input(“Enter a number: ”))
          for i in n:
             For j in (i+1):
                    print(“*”)
          print(“\r”)

7.State a character used to give single line comments in python?
Ans: In python, the # character is used to start a comment.



8. Mention function which can help us to find the version of python that we are currently working on?
Ans: The function sys.version can help us to find the version of python that we are currently working on.

9. Python support the creation of anonymous function at runtime, using a construct called _______
Ans:  Python supports the creation of anonymous functions at runtime, using a construct called “Lambda”.

10. What does pip stand for python?
Ans: pip stands for “Preferred installer program” .

11. Mention a few built-in functions in python?
Ans:  
print() function
type() function
input() function
abs() function
pow() function
dir() function
sorted() function
max() function
round() function 
divmod() function 
id() function
ord() function 
len() function
sum() function
help() function

12. What is the maximum possible length of an identifier in python?
Ans: An identifier can have a maximum length of 79 characters in python.

13. What are the benefits of using python?
Ans: 
Simple to use and understand
Free and open source
Productivity has increased
Interpreted language
Extensive library
Dynamically typed
Portability
Supportive community

14. How is memory managed in python?
Ans: memory in python is managed by python private heap space. All python objects and data structures are located in a private heap. The private heap is taken care of by the python interpreter itself, and a programmer doesn’t have access to this private heap.

15. How to install python on windows and set path variables? 
Ans:  Install python from the link https://www.python.org/downloads/ . After this, install it on your PC. Look for the location where PYTHON has been installed on your PC using the following command on your command prompt: cmd python.
Then as PYTHON_NAME and paste the copied path.
Then look for the path variable, select its value and select edit add a semicolon towards the end of the value if it’s not present and type %PYTHON_HOME%.

 

